---
title: ARF, BNF, PNP, RTF - What Does It All Mean
date: 2018-10-12 18:41:00
tags: Drone
---
#ARF, BNF, PNP, RTF - What Does It All Mean?
<article class="grid__item large--three-quarters" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Article">
    <header class="section-header">
      <div class="section-header__left">
        <h1>ARF, BNF, PNP, RTF - What Does It All Mean??</h1>
        
        
        <p class="blog-details">Posted by <strong>Yotro</strong> on <time datetime="2018-10-12">Oct 12, 

2018</time>  
  </p>
 
    
  </li>
<p></p>
      </div>
    </header>

    <div class="rte" itemprop="articleBody">
      <p>[Hobbyinrc](https://www.hobbyinrc.com) and [LighTake](https://www.lightake.com/c/Quadcopter-Drone-

Parts_025010) are available in a variety of Product Formats to suit your needs. The Product Format and its 

three letter acronym are a basic designation&nbsp;which tells you two primary things: 1) what amount of 

assembly is required and 2) what is included with the model. The following table provides a brief summary of 

each Product Format. More detailed descriptions are listed below the table.</p>
<div style="overflow-x: auto;">
<table class="slim-rows" style="width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td colspan="6" style="text-align: center;"><strong>Items Included</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Product Format</strong></td>
<td><strong>Assembly Required</strong></td>
<td><strong>Transmitter</strong></td>
<td><strong>Receiver</strong></td>
<td><strong>Battery</strong></td>
<td><strong>Motor</strong></td>
<td><strong>ESC</strong></td>
<td><strong>Servos</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>RTF&nbsp;</strong>- Ready to Fly</td>
<td>Basic</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>BNF</strong> - Bind n' Fly</td>
<td>Basic</td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>FTR</strong> - Futaba Transmitter Ready</td>
<td>Basic</td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>PNP</strong> - Receiver Ready</td>
<td>Basic / Moderate</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>ARF </strong>- Almost Ready to Fly</td>
<td>Moderate</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>ARF PLUS</strong> - ARF plus Servos</td>
<td>Moderate</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>ARF BUNDLE</strong> - ARF plus Electronics</td>
<td>Moderate</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">✔</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<strong>KIT</strong> - Airframe Only</td>
<td>Advanced</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<p><span><strong><br>ARF </strong>- ARF stands for "Almost Ready to Fly." An ARF is an aircraft that is 

"mostly" built with the exception of the main control and power system electronics. ARF's require you to 

purchase primary electronic components separately (motor, servos, ESC, etc). ARFs are for hobbyists who 

prefer a true build experience and/or prefer to put their own choice of electronics in the aircraft. 

<br>Requires: servos, ESC, motor, receiver, battery, charger, and transmitter.<strong><br><br>ARF BUNDLE 

</strong>- An ARF Bundle is an ARF model bundled with all the electronics you need to build the aircraft. 

While the required electronics are included with the airframe, they are not installed in the airframe. These 

bundles typically include servos, motors, and ESCs. The bundle simplifies your purchase and saves you money 

compared to purchasing the required electronics separately. <br>Requires: receiver, battery, charger, and 

transmitter.<strong><br><br>ARF PLUS </strong>- Expanding on the standard ARF format above, the ARF Plus 

model has all electronic components pre-installed, with the exception of the power system (the power system 

includes motor, EDF unit, and ESC). All other components, from the retracts to the servos to the lights, are 

factory installed. ARF Plus models are near ready-to-fly aircraft that give pilots the option of 

experimenting with custom power systems.<br> Requires: EDF, ESC, motor, receiver, battery, charger, and 

transmitter.<strong><br><br>BNF </strong>- BNF or Bind N' Fly aircraft include the ESC, Motor, Servos, and a 

Spektrum receiver all pre-installed from the factory. You must have a compatible Spektrum radio (sold 

separately) in order to "bind" to a BNF aircraft. BNF models do require some assembly, typically 1-2 hours of 

build time.<br>Requires: battery, charger, and Spektrum compatible transmitter.<strong></strong></span></p>
<p><span><strong>FTR</strong> - FTR or Futaba Transmitter Ready is identical to Bind N' Fly except that it 

includes a pre-installed Futaba compatible receiver instead of a Spektrum receiver. You must have a Futaba 

compatible radio in order to bind to a FTR aircraft.<br>Requires: battery, charger, and Futaba compatible 

transmitter.</span></p>
<p><span><strong>KIT </strong>- KIT typically applies to our helicopter models and describes a product which 

requires a more advanced level of assembly compared to an ARF. Our Scale Conversion Helicopter Kits require 

you to install your own helicopter mechanics to complete the assembly.<br>Requires: servos, ESC, motor, 

receiver, battery, charger, and transmitter.<strong><br><br>PNP </strong>- PNP or Plug N' Play products are 

near ready-to-fly models requiring typically less than 1-2 hours of build time. PNP models include the ESC, 

motor, and servos all pre-installed from the factory. Many pilots prefer PNP models because it allows them 

the flexibility to use any brand of receiver in their aircraft.<br>Requires: receiver, battery, charger, and 

transmitter.<strong><br><br>RTF </strong>- RTF stands for "Ready to Fly". Aircraft that are RTF come with 

everything you need to fly in the box. A transmitter, battery, charger, receiver, and all other required 

electronics are included and pre-installed from the factory. All you need to do is charge your battery, 

attach the wings and stabilizers (in some cases these are pre-attached) and you're ready for flight. While 

everything is included and pre-installed, RTF models can require 30 minutes to two hours of 

assembly.<br>Requires: Nothing.<strong><br><br>RxR </strong>- RxR is a Hobbico proprietary term which means 

"Receiver Ready" and is identical to PNP (see above).<br>Requires: receiver, battery, charger, and 

transmitter.</span></p>
    </div>
     	<br>








    
  </article>
