---
title: B-Tree
date: 2020-06-10 14:09:00
tags: [Graph,C]
music-id: 
youtube-video-ID: 
bilibili-video-ID: 

---

# [B-tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B-tree)

[EN](#EN)|[CN](#CN)

<span id="EN"> 

In computer science, a B-tree is a self-balancing tree data structure that maintains sorted data and allows searches, sequential access, insertions, and deletions in logarithmic time. The B-tree generalizes the binary search tree, allowing for nodes with more than two children.[2] Unlike other self-balancing binary search trees, the B-tree is well suited for storage systems that read and write relatively large blocks of data, such as discs. It is commonly used in databases and file systems.

According to Knuth's definition, a B-tree of order m is a tree which satisfies the following properties:

1. Every node has at most m children.
2. Every non-leaf node (except root) has at least ⌈m/2⌉ child nodes.
3. The root has at least two children if it is not a leaf node.
4. A non-leaf node with k children contains k − 1 keys.
5. All leaves appear in the same level and carry no information.

## Best case and worst case heights
Let h ≥ –1 be the height of the classic B-tree (see Tree (data structure) § Terminology for the tree height definition). Let n ≥ 0 be the number of entries in the tree. Let m be the maximum number of children a node can have. Each node can have at most m−1 keys.

It can be shown (by induction for example) that a B-tree of height h with all its nodes completely filled has n = mh+1–1 entries. Hence, the best case height (i.e. the minimum height) of a B-tree is:

$$ h_{\mathrm {min} }=\lceil \log _{m}(n+1)\rceil -1} h_{\mathrm {min} }=\lceil \log _{m}(n+1)\rceil -1}
Let  d}d be the minimum number of children an internal (non-root) node can have. For an ordinary B-tree,  d=\left\lceil m/2\right\rceil .} d=\left\lceil m/2\right\rceil .}

Comer (1979, p. 127) and Cormen et al. (2001, pp. 383–384) give the worst case height (the maximum height) of a B-tree as

 h_{\mathrm {max} }=\left\lfloor \log _{d}{\frac {n+1}{2}}\right\rfloor .} h_{\mathrm {max} }=\left\lfloor \log _{d}{\frac {n+1}{2}}\right\rfloor .}

|: ---: |: --- :: |
|Type	|Tree (data structure)|
|Invented	|1970[1]|
|Invented by	|Rudolf Bayer, Edward M. McCreight|

Time complexity in big O notation

|: ---: |: --- : |: --- : |
|Algorithm		|Average	|Worst case|
|Space		|O(n)	|O(n)|
|Search		|O(log n)	|O(log n)|
|Insert		|O(log n)|	O(log n)|
|Delete		|O(log n)	|O(log n)|

{% raw %}
<iframe frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" width="900" height="900" src="https://yotro.github.io/blob/master/assets/lib/snippet/BTree.html"></iframe>
{% endraw %}